# Project Proposal: Solar Charging Stations
## Project Description:

For this project, we will be working in collaboration with Mechanical Engineers, an Entrepreneurship Major and hopefully a few Electrical Engineers as well. They plan on building a prototype of a solar powered charging station for Bird and/or Lime Scooters and bikes. Currently, the team is in the process of proposing their ideas to the city of Los Angeles, and once approved of or finalized, will determine the full specifications of our project.  We will be working on the software side of the charging stations that will ideally be placed in cities like Santa Monica who have implemented specific parking areas for these forms of micromobility.  We hope to be able to be able to tell which charging stations have open spots and where they are located. Ideally we would be able to work with Bird or Lime and integrate with their apps, but In order to do so, we first need to establish a connection with both companies.  There are not currently APIs in existence for either code-base, so this requires that we work directly with the makers.  This is not exactly ideal, but will hopefully give us the chance to work with professional developers on a project that could benefit their companies and the functionality of their products.

If we are unable to work with Bird or Lime by first semester, our first goal is to be able to create an app where the user is able to track the locations of charging stations and the amount of open spots available. We know that there are arduinos that can be programmed in Python, and C so we will hopefully be able to collaborate with the Mechanical Engineering team to figure out how we would be coding the app, and in what languages.


## Project Justification:
Recently, in the news, there have been reports of people vandalizing or otherwise damaging electric scooters as a demonstration of resistance against the technology.  We find that this is sad to see, as it is something that has the potential to take cars off the road and make commuting easier and more ecofriendly.  Part of the reason that people are upset about these alternate transportation devices is that they can usually be left just about anywhere.  They tend to clutter the streets and sidewalks if users aren’t careful to place them out of the way (as they are instructed by the app).  Our hope is that these solar charging stations will serve as pre-approved, standardized locations for the vehicles to be left.

Another benefit of our stations is that they’ll allow for the vehicles to be charged during the day.  Their purpose will be multifaceted -- they can dock the scooters or bikes, but also provide a way to charge them during the day.  Currently, users can sign up to be chargers, a job which involves rounding up the vehicles and charging them in their homes. Instead these people could gather the scooters and move them to charging stations. Charging stations would allow the chargers to not have to keep scooters in their homes to charge, but instead simply move them to a station.
Overall, using solar power as a responsible source of energy and working with these companies should provide a unique, thought-provoking experience.  This project definitely has the potential to expand beyond the scope of what this class hopes for us to achieve.  If everything goes well, this could turn into a startup which seeks to provide additional solutions to other companies that are experiencing growing pains.  We are excited to get started on this project and begin working with the other students who will be critical to its success.
